Greetings, brothers and sisters!
Welcome to this special edition
of JW Broadcasting®
originating from the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Our programs this month and next
will feature the entire
regional convention program for 2020.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic
has resulted in cancellations
of gatherings around the world,
Jehovah continues to provide
spiritual “food at the proper time.”
At the time this program was recorded,
local governments
had already mandated social distancing.
In compliance,
we filmed the entire convention program
without an audience, and we are pleased
to present it to you now.
In behalf of the Governing Body
and all the brothers and sisters
working unitedly here at world headquarters,
it’s my pleasure
to extend to every one of you
a very warm welcome!
Our convention program
this year has as its theme
“Always Rejoice!”
and our theme scripture
for this opening day is Philippians 4:4:
“Always rejoice in the Lord.
Again I will say, Rejoice!”
This first session of our convention
begins with a music-video presentation.
This video highlights the joy we experience
when we gather together for worship.
If you have with you a cellular telephone
or other electronic device,
please adjust it to a setting
that will not disturb others.
And now, please enjoy the presentation.
We are delighted that you could join us
for this opening session
of the “Always Rejoice”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Please stand as we
sing together song number 111,
entitled “Our Reasons for Joy.”
After the song, you may pause the program
for your local opening prayer.
Again, that’s song number 111.
Please be seated.
Is it realistic for us
to rejoice at all times?
If so, how is it possible?
Please pay careful attention
to Brother Kenneth Cook,
a member of the Governing Body
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
as he directs attention
to our source of joy in the talk
“Why Jehovah Is ‘the Happy God.’”
Welcome to the 2020 “Always Rejoice”!
Regional Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
From the start, we wish to convey to you
greetings from the Governing Body
and the entire Bethel family.
And we want you to know that we love you,
and we keep you in our prayers.
So, now, whether you are watching
this from home or from some other location,
this is our convention for 2020.
And what an encouraging theme,
“Always Rejoice”!
We need to discuss this subject
now more than ever before, don’t we?
Is it possible to rejoice
as the world crumbles around us?
Yes, it is.
Those who love Jehovah
can always find reasons to rejoice.
Throughout this convention,
we will discuss
four things
that will help us to rejoice.
What are they?
(1) We will consider
the reasons we have for rejoicing,
(2) we will examine
how we can cultivate godly joy,
(3) we will look at how we
can maintain joy despite trials,
and (4) we will discuss
how to express joy,
that is, the joy we receive
from serving Jehovah.
Now let’s lay the foundation
for all of this
by first answering the question:
What is true joy?
What is commonly called joy
is an emotion that is stirred
by a feeling of well-being,
by a sense of success,
or because of expecting
something good.
And for this reason,
joy may seem to come and go
depending on what
is happening around us.
You might call it circumstantial joy.
But that is not the case with true joy.
Why?
Because true joy
—godly joy—
is an aspect of the fruitage
of God’s holy spirit.
True joy is a quality of the heart
that is not dependent on external things
happening around us.
This godly quality comes
from knowing that you have the truth,
that you are doing what pleases God,
and that your Kingdom hope
is certain to be fulfilled.
So then, we see
there’s a big difference
between having circumstantial joy
and having “joy of holy spirit.”
This is illustrated for us in the Scriptures
by the example
of the Christians in Thessalonica.
The apostle Paul and others
helped them to prepare ahead of time
to face persecution with joy,
and prepare they did.
How?
They became strong in faith.
Let’s read
about what this did for them
at 1 Thessalonians 1:6.
As we read the verse, ask yourself,
‘Where did their deep-seated joy come from?’
The verse reads:
“And you became imitators of us,
and of the Lord,
“seeing that you accepted
the word under much tribulation
with joy of holy spirit.”
Where did their joy come from?
Two things are mentioned:
They imitated good examples,
and they had the joy that comes
from having God’s holy spirit on them.
We too can acquire
“joy of holy spirit,” as mentioned here,
by applying what we learn
and seeking Jehovah’s blessing,
his spirit.
Godly joy is not a mere personality trait
that we are born with then, is it?
And it doesn’t come to us
simply because of pleasant circumstances.
“Joy of holy spirit”
is found deep within us.
And so it should not be confused
with simply being cheerful or exuberant.
Godly joy is not superficial.
It’s not found
in constantly smiling or laughing.
To show the difference,
think of a comedian
who seems to be able
to find what is funny
in just about any situation in life.
Yet, deep down inside,
he may be very unhappy.
In contrast, like the Christians
in Thessalonica,
we can have “joy of holy spirit”
even when we
are under tribulation.
We may not smile
through a bad time,
but our deep inner joy
in serving Jehovah is immovable.
It’s part of “the new personality”
that true Christians put on
in order to be like Christ.
Now, with this basic understanding
of godly joy in mind,
let’s give our attention
to Brother Stephen Lett,
a member of the Governing Body,
as he welcomes us
to this “Always Rejoice”! convention.
And please listen carefully
as he explains why godly joy
is such a special quality.
Welcome to the “Always Rejoice”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
We’re so happy
that you were able to arrange
to attend all three days
of this convention.
Why were the apostle Paul’s words
at Philippians 4:4 chosen
as the theme for this year’s convention?
Well, over the past four years,
the Governing Body
has used conventions
to highlight qualities
that endear us to Jehovah
and help us to be victorious
in our struggle
against Satan and his world.
We’ve had convention themes
that focused on the need
for loyalty,
endurance,
courage,
and love.
This year,
the convention theme highlights
the need for joy.
At Nehemiah 8:10,
we’re told:
“The joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.”
In the near future,
our faith will be tested
as never before.
But if we acquire true joy
with the help of God’s holy spirit,
we’ll be able to stand firm
and weather all the storms
that come our way.
Godly joy is a deep-seated quality
of the heart.
It’s a state of happiness that remains
whether the conditions
around us are pleasant or not.
In fact, a person
can be disturbed about something
but still have joy in his heart.
For example, the apostles were flogged
for speaking about the Christ.
Yet, “they went out
from before the Sanhedrin,
“rejoicing because they
had been counted worthy
to be dishonored in behalf of his name.”
Obviously, they weren’t rejoicing
over the flogging they had received.
But as servants of God,
they found true joy
in keeping their integrity to him.
However, is it possible for a Christian
always to be rejoicing?
Yes, because true joy is an aspect
of the fruitage of God’s holy spirit.
As an inward quality,
joy is not dependent on external things,
not even on our brothers.
But it does depend on God’s spirit.
And as already noted,
our joy comes
from that deep inner satisfaction
of knowing that we have the truth,
that we’re doing what pleases Jehovah,
and that our Kingdom hope is sure.
So godly joy is not the transient joy
that people experience
because they’ve secured a well-paying job,
gone on an exotic vacation,
attained fame and prestige,
or acquired some
coveted material item
or large sum of money.
No, true joy has to be cultivated
by means of holy spirit.
To obtain Jehovah’s holy spirit,
we have to draw close to him
and give him exclusive devotion.
At Acts 5:32,
we’re told that God gives holy spirit
“to those obeying him as ruler.”
During these three days,
the convention program
will help us to deepen
our appreciation
for godly joy.
We’ll learn what true joy is,
how to cultivate it,
how to maintain it during difficult times,
and how to display it
as it wells up in our hearts.
Such joy will clearly identify us
as disciples of Jesus,
and it will enable us to serve
as beacons of light in this dark world
and draw others to our “happy God.”
You’ll note
that nearly the entire second day
has been devoted
to the joy of disciple-making.
Godly joy will help us
to face challenges to our integrity.
Remember that it was
“the joy that was set before him”
that helped Jesus to face
an excruciating death on a torture stake.
So please pay rapt attention
to the talks and videos.
Look up the scriptures,
and read them along with the speakers,
thus allowing God’s Word
to exert its powerful force
on your heart.
May this convention
become a milestone
in your development
as a joyful imitator of our happy God.
How thankful we are
that he made us “in his image,”
giving us the capacity
to feel and express godly joy!
And how thankful we are
that he also gives us his holy spirit
to help us cultivate that kind of joy!
We love you very much,
and we pray that each one of you
will forever respond to the words
of the psalmist at Psalm 100:2:
“Serve Jehovah with rejoicing.
Come into his presence
with joyful shouting.”
We wish to thank Brother Lett
for building up our anticipation
for this “Always Rejoice”! convention.
As Brother Lett highlighted,
godly joy is indeed a very special quality.
Such true joy
comes from Jehovah himself.
In fact, the Bible
says that he always
has reasons to rejoice
—so much so
that being happy
describes his personality.
Let’s see this for ourselves
as we read 1 Timothy 1:11.
The context in verses 8 through 10
lists many of the bad qualities and actions
that people of this world display.
But they can change if they listen
to our joyful God, Jehovah.
With that in mind,
note the apostle Paul’s inspired words
in verse 11,
as he goes on to say
“according to the glorious good news
of the happy God,
with which I was entrusted.”
Why can Jehovah be called happy
despite seeing all of the problems
and suffering on the earth?
Well, among the many things
that make him happy are the following four.
(1) Jehovah is the Creator.
Everything he does is perfect.
Deuteronomy 32:4 says:
“Perfect is his activity.”
For this reason, Jehovah
can rightly rejoice in his creation.
That fact is undeniable,
and it’s clearly stated
in Psalm 104:31.
As we read it together,
consider how determined
Jehovah is to keep his joy.
Verse 31 says:
“The glory of Jehovah will last forever.
Jehovah will rejoice in his works.”
The point:
Jehovah will not be denied, will he?
He will find joy
in what he has accomplished.
No one can take that from him.
He is the happy God whose purpose for man
and for the earth will be realized.
Adding to his happiness is reason (2)
Jehovah is generous.
And we know what the Bible
says about those who give.
And aren’t we grateful
for all that Jehovah is providing
to help us and support us
now through a very difficult time?
(3) Jehovah’s heart is made glad
by the faithfulness of his servants.
He never forgets all that we have done.
At Proverbs 23:15, he says:
“If your heart becomes wise,
then my own heart will rejoice.”
If we remain faithful to Jehovah,
the joy that we
can bring to him will last forever.
(4) Because Jehovah is perfect,
he always does what is right.
He will never do anything
to spoil his own happiness.
Well, now that we have looked
at what makes Jehovah the happy God,
we want to know what makes us happy,
that is, what makes us truly happy
—deep-down-inside happy.
After all, it’s not difficult
to find superficial happiness.
For instance, when you’re near
someone with a funny laugh,
do you often find yourself
laughing as well?
It happens, right?
You may not even know
what you’re laughing about, true?
The point is this:
It’s not all that difficult
to experience superficial happiness.
But to find lasting joy takes effort,
and it takes appreciation
for what we have.
We will now look at some
of the things that bring us real joy,
and as you might expect,
it begins with Jehovah.
Our relationship with Jehovah
is our foremost reason for joy,
but not just any relationship;
take note of what is needed
as we read Psalm 16:11.
As we do so, first,
notice what Jehovah does.
Next, see what type of relationship
we can have with him.
Then, make the connection to having joy.
Psalm 16:11 reads:
“You make known to me the path of life.
In your presence is abundant joy.”
So again, first, what does Jehovah do?
He kindly makes
“the path of life” known to us.
Next, what type of relationship
can we have with him?
A very close one, it says,
as if “in [his very] presence.”
Then we read that “in [his] presence,”
there is what?
“Abundant joy.”
Now, along with having
a close relationship with Jehovah,
as mentioned there,
what else brings us joy?
Jehovah’s holy spirit does.
His holy spirit generates joy
in those who receive it.
For this reason, we should pray
to receive his holy spirit every day.
What else promotes true joy within us?
Our marvelous hope.
Also, we have
an abundance of spiritual food,
even under difficult circumstances.
That joyful blessing
was foretold in God’s Word.
To see it, please go
to Isaiah 65:13, 14.
Now, in these verses,
Jehovah draws a contrast
between good people
and bad people
when he says this,
starting in verse 13:
“Therefore this is what
the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Look!
“‘My servants will eat,
but you will go hungry.
“‘Look!
“‘My servants will drink,
but you will go thirsty.
“‘Look!
“‘My servants will rejoice,
but you will suffer shame.
“‘Look!
“‘My servants will shout joyfully
because of the good condition of the heart,
but you will cry out
because of the pain of heart.’”
Do you see yourself
on Jehovah’s side of this contrast?
If you’ve been keeping up
with God’s organization,
you should feel well-fed spiritually.
The bad conditions of this world
must not be permitted
to take away from our joy.
As Jehovah said:
“[We] shout joyfully.”
Why?
“Because of the good condition
of the heart.”
We are more ready than ever before
to see the realization of our hope.
On the other hand,
the world around us is suffering
because they lack clear direction
and they are without real hope.
Throughout our lives,
and especially at times like this,
we should take note
of Jehovah’s help.
When we see that Jehovah is helping us,
we know that he is with us.
We just know it
—and this too brings us immense joy!
Also, we find joy in hearing
the expressions of faith
that come from our dear brothers
and sisters, don’t we?
And this is true whether we
meet together for worship in person
or whether we meet
by means of video.
In fact, with so much
to add to our inner joy,
we can come to have a joy
so strong and so deep within us
that nothing can shake it.
Even persecution,
though not enjoyable in itself,
can lead to joy.
How so?
As Jesus said at Matthew 5:11, 12:
“Happy are you when people reproach you
“and persecute you and lyingly say
“every sort of wicked thing
against you for my sake.
“Rejoice and be overjoyed,
since your reward is great.”
So how can we be joyful
even though we are persecuted?
Because when we endure persecution
with joy and keep our integrity,
we gain a victory and Jehovah’s approval.
Jesus said: “Rejoice and be overjoyed,
since your reward is great.”
Well, so far, we have defined true joy,
we have examined why Jehovah
is called “the happy God,”
and we have reviewed
a number of things that bring us godly joy.
But at this point, you may be wondering,
‘Can I really be happy if I am suffering?’
That’s a very good question.
So let’s look some more at how
or in what sense we can “always rejoice.”
The fact is that at times all of us
may be saddened by injustice,
poor health, unemployment, grief,
or other causes of anxiety
such as mankind has experienced
with this global pandemic.
And many of our brothers and sisters
have been affected
by such things, haven’t they?
Since that is the case,
let’s look at how we can apply
the words of our convention theme,
at Philippians 4:4.
Now, as we read verse 4
—Philippians 4:4—
imagine the apostle Paul writing this
while he was in prison bonds, or chains.
Yet, full of faith,
he said this with God’s spirit on him:
“Always rejoice in the Lord.
Again I will say, Rejoice!”
Why could Paul say this so emphatically?
Because the apostle Paul was a man
who had true godly joy.
Paul had true joy that was not dependent
on what was happening around him
or what was happening to him.
From a heart filled with faith,
he said that he had joy
that was focused in,
or on, the Lord.
That is why Paul was joyful
despite any injustice
or anxiety that he experienced.
“Always rejoice,”
he said, “again . . . rejoice.”
What will help us to apply
these inspired words?
Well, like Paul, we too can always rejoice,
despite unpleasant circumstances,
when we grow in faith and seek true joy.
We too seek joy that’s not merely
the result of what happens
around us or what happens to us.
When we pray earnestly for God’s spirit,
he helps us to succeed
and to keep our deep inner joy
no matter what trial we may face.
Even more than this,
we have Jehovah’s example to imitate.
He has maintained his joy
despite much heartache.
What has he endured?
Well, over a period of about 4,000 years,
Jehovah saw a number of angels
rebel against his sovereignty.
He saw Adam and Eve rebel.
He watched wickedness
spread across the earth.
He saw false worship spread,
and this included
what his chosen people, the Israelites,
did as they reverted again
and again to apostasy.
Finally, Jehovah saw his enemies
put his Son to death.
But through it all,
though unimaginably painful for Him,
Jehovah never lost his deep-seated joy.
In fact, imagine his joy
as he watched the vast majority
of the angels keep their integrity.
Imagine his joy
as he watched
faithful Israelites keep their integrity
even when faced with death.
And imagine Jehovah’s joy
as he saw thousands turn
to following his Son
and become true Christians
—a number that today
reaches into the millions.
Jehovah has always been able
to see the light beyond the storm.
May we imitate the happy God
and count our blessings every day,
even during the most difficult times.
To help us to do this, we have
an entire convention now to enjoy
—all of it centered
on the thought of always rejoicing.
This convention includes talks,
symposiums, interviews,
a Bible drama, and many videos
that will teach us how to cultivate
and display “joy of holy spirit.”
Please look at the convention program,
and let’s see what’s in store for us.
Our Scriptural theme for the first day
is also our convention theme scripture,
Philippians 4:4,
which again says:
“Always rejoice in the Lord.
Again I will say, Rejoice!”
We have so much to look forward to
during the first day of this program.
For instance,
the opening symposium will show
that it’s Jehovah’s advice,
not the world’s wisdom,
that brings true joy
when we follow it.
Then the dramatic Bible reading
will help us to visualize
the events recorded
in the book of Ezra.
After that, we will enjoy
a faith-strengthening review
of how in the past
Jehovah saved his people
as a group and as individuals.
During this critical time,
it’s important for us to take to heart
what we will hear in that talk, entitled
“Rejoice in Jehovah’s Acts
of Salvation.”
In the afternoon session,
the second symposium of the day
will explain how the joy
in a family is enhanced
when each member appreciates
and cherishes the others.
The last symposium of the day
will show how creation
provides convincing proof
that Jehovah wants us to enjoy life.
This will be followed
by a talk that will discuss
how we can find more peace and more joy
by avoiding jealousy and competition.
Finally, the first day concludes
with a talk that will show us
how those who truly know
Jehovah are optimistic.
They are generous and patient.
As with each part of this convention,
listen carefully to this talk, entitled
“Close Friendship With Jehovah
Brings the Greatest Joy!”
We now look ahead to the second day
of our convention program.
The Scriptural theme
is based on Psalm 105:3,
and there in verse 3, we are encouraged
to “boast about his holy name.
Let the hearts of those
seeking Jehovah rejoice.”
One important way
to “boast about [Jehovah’s] holy name”
is by means of our disciple-making work.
Tying that in with our convention theme,
the first symposium of the day
will leave no doubt
that our joy increases as our skills
in the disciple-making work improve.
Following this, the second symposium
will show how we can find joy
in the ministry when we rely
on the help that God
gives us for this work.
The baptism talk
will help those soon-to-get-baptized
to keep in mind
what they need to do in order to be happy
now and forever.
In the afternoon portion
of the second day’s program,
you will hear experiences during a series
of videos that will make you proud
to be part of our international brotherhood
of disciple-makers.
The last symposium of day two
will focus on ways you can help
your Bible students
to overcome their fears
and experience Jehovah’s help
and his blessings.
This will be followed
by a convention highlight
—Part I of the Bible drama
“The Joy of Jehovah Is Your Stronghold.”
After that faith-strengthening drama,
we will enjoy the final talk
of the second day, entitled
“Making Disciples Now Prepares Us
for New World Disciple-Making.”
This talk will help
to increase our enthusiasm
not only for the disciple-making
work of today
but also for that yet to come.
Now we go to the final day
of our program.
With a Scriptural theme
taken from Psalm 37:4,
the final day focuses our attention
on what lies at the heart of true joy.
Psalm 37:4 says:
“Find exquisite delight in Jehovah,
and he will grant you
the desires of your heart.”
With Jehovah as our focus,
we start the day
with a seven-part symposium
that will highlight how we
can endure trials with joy.
Afterward,
during the public Bible discourse,
the speaker will explain
what riches God promises
and how they can be obtained.
In the concluding session of our convention,
we will be delighted to watch
the thrilling climax of the Bible drama
“The Joy of Jehovah Is Your Stronghold.”
Then the convention program
will conclude with the talk
“Find Exquisite Delight in Jehovah!”
We will all benefit
as the speaker reviews
what helps us now
and what we have
to look forward to in the future.
Would you like to see a preview
of the many videos
we will enjoy at this convention?
We thought so.
Let’s watch.
I tried to look for work,
but I was unsuccessful.
It was a struggle even to get water.
And the specialist gave us the diagnosis
of a very aggressive brain tumor.
My negative disposition
made me a very impatient, sarcastic,
and demanding person.
The fact that I was not appointed
as an elder made me feel disappointed.
Jehovah will act in the near future,
fulfilling all his promises.
And so I’m happy to endure.
And when everything
around you is chaotic,
the one thing you have
is your relationship with Jehovah.
Regaining joy is a work in progress.
I’ve always admired
the beauty and power of the sea.
It reminds me of the One
who created the sea.
It’s not hard for him to care
for just one small human like me.
What a wonderful preview!
We have so many blessings
to appreciate
and to draw strength from.
Yes, enjoy the blessings
of cultivating “joy of holy spirit.”
From this opening discussion,
it’s clear that godly joy
does not come from random events;
nor does it come from this world.
Rather, godly joy
—true joy—
is an aspect of the fruitage
of God’s holy spirit.
What will be one of the many blessings
that we will experience
if we continue to rejoice?
The answer,
which this convention will highlight,
is found at 2 Corinthians 13:11.
Please read it along with me
—2 Corinthians 13:11.
It says: “Finally, brothers,
continue to rejoice,
“to be readjusted, to be comforted,
to think in agreement,
“to live peaceably;
and the God of love and of peace
will be with you.”
So if you continue to rejoice
in serving Jehovah,
what is the promise?
The promise is that “the God of love
and of peace will be with you.”
With that in mind,
let’s be determined
to “always rejoice.”
In turn, Jehovah,
“the happy God,”
will always be with us.
Thank you, Brother Cook, for giving us
a preview of the convention program!
We certainly want
to keep listening to this entire program
so as not to miss any
of what has been prepared.
People everywhere search for joy,
but many fail to find it.
Why?
How can true joy be found?
Please give attention
to the first symposium of this convention.
Brother Leonard Myers, a helper
to the Writing Committee
of the Governing Body,
will begin with the talk
“What Contributes to Joy?—A Simple Life.”
Each speaker
will then introduce the one to follow.
The opening song of our convention program
reminded us
that “our reasons for joy are abundant”
and that true joy “is well-founded,
with roots reaching deep in God’s Word.”
Just as a tree anchors itself
in the earth’s nourishing soil,
so true joy is anchored
in the sayings of Jehovah.
And those sayings
promise us joy that will last forever.
But isn’t it also true
that Satan’s world promises to give us joy?
Yet, any measure of joy
derived from things in Satan’s world
—such as pursuing wealth, wrongdoing,
extreme views of work,
or friendships in the world—
is a false joy that is short-lived.
Think back to our illustration of the tree.
Can a tree survive if its roots
have been poisoned with chemicals?
Of course not.
Well, how long will we experience joy
if we seek it
in this poisonous world of Satan?
Not long at all.
This symposium will contrast
what the world teaches about joy
with what God’s Word teaches.
As you listen and watch,
consider these questions:
Why do the world’s ways
of finding joy not work?
And am I pursuing
what truly contributes to joy?
In this talk, we’ll discuss how pursuing
a simple life contributes to joy.
The world teaches that pursuing wealth
and having money will make you happy.
And an illustration of Jesus
in Luke chapter 12 highlights that point.
Please turn there with me, Luke chapter 12.
In the illustration,
the land of a rich man produced well.
He planned on building bigger storehouses.
And notice, Luke 12:19,
what the man said to himself:
“You have many good things
stored up for many years;
take it easy, eat, drink, enjoy yourself.”
So the man thought
that because of having many good things,
he could enjoy them for many years.
But notice what God told him,
according to verse 20:
“Unreasonable one, this night
they are demanding your life from you.
Who, then, is to have the things
you stored up?”
So in reality, the man’s joy
from pursuing wealth was short-lived.
To further illustrate this point,
as you watch the following dramatization,
consider how a brother
responds to an offer of more money
and how it affects his joy.
You wanted to see me?
Yeah, come on in and go ahead
and close the door, please.
Thanks for coming up.
Yeah, absolutely.
Ben, all of your projects have
come in on schedule and under budget.
We’re really impressed, and we want
to move you up to the management team.
Wow!
Now, you’ll head up
the whole division to start.
Management team
—I liked the sound of that,
not to mention the pay raise and the bonuses.
It did sound like a lot more work,
but Victor was so positive.
There may be a little overtime
here and there,
but I wouldn’t worry about it
—not with your skill.
He told me I could think
about it before deciding.
But come on, this was a no-brainer.
The new position was great!
And the money—well,
that wasn’t too bad either.
It was exciting
to work directly with clients,
but the hours
were crazy.
It’s been said that the easy thing to do
and the right thing
to do are seldom the same.
We see an example of this
in this week’s Bible reading.
True worship,
the right thing, was not easy
but required hard work.
King Hezekiah demonstrated
his zeal for Jehovah’s worship . . .
So our question for the audience is,
How could we explain this to someone?
Ava, please.
Most nights I was wiped out.
All around the world,
many people wonder if life has any purpose.
And I have to admit
that even when I wasn’t working, . . .
I’m so sorry.
Can you take this door for me?
Twenty minutes.
I was working.
OK.
As highlighted in the video,
why will pursuing money not make us happy?
Because we wouldn’t be
following Jehovah’s advice,
and that would cause us
to fall into “a snare,” or trap,
as mentioned at 1 Timothy 6:9.
Without our even realizing it,
that snare can consume our time
—time that we need to be spending
on spiritual things.
How was that shown in the video?
Well, the pay raise, bonuses,
new car, and other things
may have made our brother happy
for a short time.
However, did you notice how
pursuing money was a snare for him?
Most nights he was exhausted
from working long hours.
He arrived late
to the meeting and fell asleep.
And did you notice what happened
to his participation in the field ministry
—the most important work on earth?
It suffered, didn’t it?
He wasn’t prepared, and he experienced
interruptions from his workplace.
It’s true that money is useful.
We need it to buy food,
shelter, and clothing.
But trading spiritual things for wealth
is always a poor investment.
On the other hand,
a life focused on serving Jehovah
is a simple life
that brings deep and lasting joy.
Jesus emphasized this
in his words at Matthew 6:22:
“If, then, your eye is focused,
your whole body will be bright.”
The basic meaning of the Greek word
for “focused” is “single or simple.”
“It can convey the idea of singleness
of mind or devotion to one purpose.”
For example,
if we focus our life on material things,
they could take up a lot
of our time and energy,
and we may not take time
to pray, study, or preach.
How much better to follow
Jesus’ instruction and keep our life simple!
By focusing on putting
God’s service first in our life,
we’ll have true joy.
As you watch the following dramatization,
consider how our brother gains joy
when he makes a different decision.
We’re really impressed, and we want
to move you up to the management team.
Wow!
Now, you’ll head up
the whole division to start.
Victor’s offer really took me by surprise.
And wow!
The perks were tempting!
But I knew there was a lot at stake,
so I told him I’d talk to Lisa
and get back to him tomorrow.
What was this job going to mean
for our spiritual goals?
Would we still be able
to keep our life simple?
Were we ready to trade
our time together as a family
for more money?
The next day,
I told Victor how much
I appreciated the opportunity
but felt that it just wasn’t
the right fit for our family.
Money was tight, but we were OK.
We had what we needed.
Saying no to that promotion
meant holding off on a few upgrades,
but it also meant more time
for meeting preparation, . . .
Thank you, Brother Miller.
Let’s go on and look at the—
. . .  more time for the ministry,
and more time
for each other.
Did you notice the happiness
of our brother and his family
when he decided to live a simple life?
But why does a simple life
bring us happiness?
Ecclesiastes 5:12 highlights one reason.
Let’s look at that together
—Ecclesiastes 5:12.
Why does a simple life bring us happiness?
The verse says:
“Sweet is the sleep of the one serving,
“whether he eats little or much,
“but the plenty belonging to the rich one
does not permit him to sleep.”
So those who possess much
may be anxious about losing their possessions
and thus lose sleep worrying about them.
In contrast, those with little materially
have less to worry about,
and they can enjoy,
as the verse says, “sweet . . . sleep.”
The point:
When we refuse to allow material things
to interfere with our sacred service,
we gain satisfaction, peace, and joy.
So if you’re presented with an offer
like the one given
to our brother in the video,
what should you do?
First, pray.
Pray for help to make a decision
that will be pleasing to Jehovah.
Then, ask yourself:
Will this decision complicate my life?
And how will this affect
the time I spend serving Jehovah?
Questions like those
helped our brother in the video
to make a decision that brought great joy.
Remember, any decision you make
that promotes a simple life
focused on serving Jehovah
will lead to joy that “is well-founded,
with roots reaching deep in God’s Word.”
May all of us attain the true joy
that comes from living a simple life.
But a simple life
is not the only thing that leads to joy.
Listen as Brother Robert Ciranko,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
now considers the next talk
of this symposium,
“What Contributes to Joy?
—A Clean Conscience.”
What would you do
if you were tempted or pressured
to commit
some sort of wrongdoing?
There are many people
in the world
who would give in
to the temptation or the pressure,
especially if they felt that they
could benefit in some way
and they thought that no one
would find out about it.
But would doing that
really contribute to a person’s joy?
In the previous talk,
we saw a dramatization
of a brother named Ben.
At first, he chose to accept a promotion
at work that put him under great stress.
Let’s take another look
at him in that position
and see how he handles
things when his boss
pressures him to be dishonest.
Hey, Ben, it looks like you forgot
to sign off on a job order.
Actually,
these failed that quality inspection.
Remember?
Yeah, by like two tenths of a point.
Yeah, I already talked to Steve
about replacing the components,
and we’re going to get that order adjusted,
and I’ll have a new one for you
on your desk tomorrow afternoon.
Ben,
there’s no time for that.
This is a huge account.
If you don’t sign off on this,
you’d be hurting the whole company.
What?
Victor, I’m-I’m not sure
that I’m really comfortable
bypassing the inspection when . . .
Ben, I’m not asking you to tell some big lie.
This is a technicality.
Remember, a good quarter
means good bonuses for everyone
—including you.
I didn’t want to do it,
but the last thing that Lisa and I needed
was for me to lose my job.
I really didn’t have a choice.
If you lie, they can’t believe you.
And they might not . . .
I kept telling myself
that it was no big deal.
All lies are bad, even little ones.
One lie leads to another,
and they cause much harm.
It’s simple, right?
Jehovah’s people always tell the truth.
Did you hear what Ben said?
“I kept telling myself
that it was no big deal.”
But if that were really true,
then why was he so uncomfortable
about what he had done?
It is because wrongdoing
does not lead to true joy.
Ben’s conscience was not clean.
It was telling him
that Jehovah’s people always tell the truth.
And what is the conscience?
A young boy was asked
that question, and he said,
“When you’re good,
you don’t even know you have it,
but when you’re bad,
it hurts.”
Another child said that in her head
there was a green light
and a red light, and that when she was told
to do something that she knew was wrong,
the red light would flash.
Well, they both
had the right idea.
Our conscience is our inner sense
of right and wrong
that Jehovah instilled in us.
And the Bible says that it is
like a ‘law written in the human heart.’
Speaking of people in general,
look at what Romans 2:15 says,
as it explains
the function of the conscience.
That’s Romans 2:15:
“They are the very ones
who demonstrate the matter of the law
“to be written in their hearts,
“while their conscience
is bearing witness with them,
“and by their own thoughts
they are being accused
or even excused.”
Jehovah gave us a conscience
so that we can evaluate
any situation
that arises in life,
make a right choice,
and then judge ourselves afterward
on the choice we made.
If we allow ourselves
to do what we know is wrong,
our conscience
will surely strike us.
Then, if we repeatedly
ignore our conscience,
it will malfunction
and become insensitive
and it will not recognize
dangers that could damage
our relationship with Jehovah.
The first time a person does something
he knows he should not do,
his conscience may prick him
and he may feel guilty.
But if he does it
again and again,
his conscience
will gradually fail to respond,
and he may get involved
in even more serious wrongdoing.
Seemingly small compromises
often lead to larger ones,
and larger compromises
further distance people
from the happy God,
and that leads to feelings
of worthlessness and heartache.
Whereas a clean conscience
that results from obeying Jehovah
brings us self-respect,
personal dignity, and real joy.
Now, how can we
safeguard our conscience
so that it is always clean?
By studying Bible principles
and meditating on how to apply them,
so that when we are faced
with important decisions,
we will know how
to respond in a way
that will contribute
to our joy.
We have to sensitize
our conscience
by learning and loving Jehovah’s view
of what is right and what is wrong
and by being convinced
that living in harmony
with his standards
is the best way of life.
And that is how
the psalmist David felt.
If you’d like to turn
to Psalm 19:8,
Psalm 19:8, he wrote:
“The orders
from Jehovah are righteous,
“causing the heart to rejoice;
“the commandment of Jehovah is clean,
making the eyes shine.”
So maintaining a clean conscience
in all areas of our daily life
will bring us joy—in our use of alcohol,
in business dealings,
with entertainment choices,
and in our dealings
with the opposite sex.
And when we have a clean conscience,
as Jehovah’s people,
we are not ashamed
to give a witness to others.
As the apostle Paul wrote
at 2 Corinthians 1:12,
we can boast that “our conscience
bears witness
“that we have conducted ourselves
in the world . . . with holiness
and godly sincerity.”
At times, it takes
real courage to be honest
and to face whatever consequences
may come our way.
As you watch
the following dramatization,
see how Ben benefits
from being honest.
Hey, Javi.
Hey, Ben.
How are you doing?
Good.
How’s the job going?
Oh, the machine is running great!
Ben, I did have a question
on the specs for the Harrison job.
Can we take a quick look?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Uh, let’s see here.
Need a hand?
No, I’m good.
I just . . .
Oh, no!
What happened, guys?
We got—we got to do something!
Um, disconnect . . .
OK.
Yeah, yeah, get it going.
Dead
—I’m pretty sure it’s dead.
I would just say that it stopped working.
Whatever you do,
don’t tell Victor what happened.
We just got this set up last month.
Why would it just stop working?
It could happen.
Oh, you can actually smell
the coffee.
I’ll talk to Victor.
Don’t throw yourself under the bus, Man!
We’ll help you get this cleaned up.
No one will have to know.
This is one of the most expensive
units in the shop.
If you take the blame,
you’re just making yourself look bad.
No.
It’s OK.
It was a mistake.
I’ll explain it.
We need to get this back online.
In the end, I think Victor
actually appreciated my honesty.
And he wasn’t the only one.
Mark had some questions,
and we had a great discussion.
This time, instead of his conscience
troubling him,
Ben had real peace of mind.
He also gained the trust
and respect of others.
How can you
have a clean conscience?
By being determined,
as Hebrews 13:18 says,
‘to conduct yourselves
honestly in all things,’
whether other humans are aware
of your good conduct or not.
Then you can sleep each night
with the satisfaction of knowing
that Jehovah
is pleased with you.
As they say, ‘There is no pillow
so soft as a clean conscience.’
It rewards us
with peace of mind and joy.
Besides a clean conscience,
what else brings true joy?
Listen as Brother William Malenfant,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
considers the next talk
of this symposium,
“What Contributes to Joy?
—Meaningful Work.”
Work is a gift from God.
And his inspired Word tells us
to be balanced in our view of work.
However, the world
teaches extreme views of work
that are contrary to God’s view.
Some have the view that work
should be avoided at all costs,
and they work hard at not working.
Others have the view
that the more you work,
the happier you will be.
As you watch
the following dramatization,
notice how our brother’s emphasis
on secular work actually robs him of joy.
The company took on new clients this year,
and I knew that Victor
was really depending on me
to keep things on schedule.
I didn’t want to let him down,
so I stepped up
and took on the overtime hours.
I figured it was temporary,
and I even got to take home
a bigger paycheck.
The problem is
that that’s not all I took home.
By the end of each week, I was burned-out.
And the weekends
—well,
they weren’t really any better.
In fact, I spent a lot
of Saturdays back at the office.
The project took a lot longer than I thought.
That pretty much took out field service
and the meetings.
But I knew that management
would be impressed.
That machine is essential
so that I can get the parts out.
I got the reports in right on time.
Look!
This is costing a lot of money.
I have a first quarter that I have to meet,
and without this,
it’s going to—it’s going to kill me.
You know we had a contract
that you’re supposed to—
Like I said,
I don’t care about your third-party vendors.
This is unacceptable.
I was working harder than ever,
and in the end,
I’m not sure anyone even cared.
We know that being industrious
and working hard is good.
But what did our brother
in the video experience
when he adopted
the world’s extreme view of work?
Did it make him happier?
If we put secular work
above everything else,
we could lose out
on needed rest and spiritual pursuits.
Our brother in the video
sacrificed precious time with his family
and activity with the congregation
because he did not have
a balanced view of secular work.
Read with me
what Ecclesiastes 4:6
indicates about being balanced
—Ecclesiastes 4:6:
“Better is a handful of rest
“than two handfuls of hard work
[and notice what it adds]
and chasing after the wind.”
“Chasing after the wind”
is an exercise in futility.
You can’t catch the wind
and hold on to it.
A person who is a workaholic
may never enjoy the fruitage of his labor
if his work consumes
all his time and energy.
His work can become as pointless
as “chasing after the wind.”
We accept with joy our obligation
to provide for ourselves
and those who depend on us.
But we also need to remember
that there is more to life than work.
Jehovah gives us
the instructions we need
to have a balanced life
and have a proper view of work.
For example, the Bible encourages us
to work hard at what we do
to make a living,
and meaningful secular work
can bring us joy
and a feeling of accomplishment.
Whatever we do, we want to do it well.
Also, as Ephesians 4:28 says,
“doing good work” allows us
to “have something to share
with someone in need.”
But we are advised in Scripture
to “make sure
of the more important things.”
And the most important work we can do
is stated clearly at 1 Corinthians 15:58.
Please read with me
1 Corinthians 15:58:
“Therefore, my beloved brothers,
“be steadfast, immovable,
“always having plenty to do
in the work of the Lord,
“knowing that your labor is not in vain
in connection with the Lord.”
“Having plenty to do in the work
of the Lord”
is good for us,
and it is pleasing to Jehovah.
As you watch
the following dramatization,
see how our brother benefits
from working hard
at his secular job
and in spiritual pursuits.
It had been a busy week,
but the weekend was going to be even busier
and better!
But first, I needed to make
an important stop.
Oh, it’s Ben.
Come in!
Oh, it’s so good to see you.
You too.
Hey, John,
how are you feeling?
Ben, how are you doing?
Good.
Well, I’m so glad . . .
This illness had been so hard
on John and Sandy.
I couldn’t even imagine
what they were going through.
It was so encouraging
to see John’s positive attitude.
The next day,
we had a fantastic conversation
in the ministry.
Then Tom and I
finally figured out that glitch
in the A/V system.
OK, Tom, go ahead and hit play.
It’s playing.
OK.
All right!
Yes!
Whew!
Everything looked and sounded great!
We definitely were busy
but in the best way possible,
doing things that really mattered
and for people who love Jehovah.
We saw a balanced
and joyful man in that video.
Our brother worked hard
at his secular job
because it allowed him to provide
for his family’s physical needs.
Did you notice in the video
that the brother had a picture
of his family at his workplace?
It was a nice reminder
of one of the reasons
why he was working hard.
True, it may be that you work at a job
you don’t particularly enjoy doing.
Nevertheless, you
work hard and give it your best
because you’re doing it
for your family and for Jehovah.
And when you do your job well,
the truth is that
you can find pleasure in it
or at least in what it provides.
Doing “the work of the Lord”
includes work that we do
on behalf of the congregation.
We experience the greater happiness
that comes from giving,
as stated at Acts 20:35.
Did our brother in the video
that we just observed
give of himself to the congregation?
Yes, he did.
He took the time
to visit a brother in the hospital,
and we know
that such visits are truly appreciated.
He participated in the ministry
to spread the good news
of the Kingdom.
He helped out at the Kingdom Hall
to get the audio/video setup working.
Like him, we make ourselves available
for whatever has to be done
to care for Kingdom interests.
At the end of the day,
our brother was with his family
and friends—probably very tired.
But it was a good tired.
He was enjoying a period
of relaxation and personal satisfaction.
Yes, all of his hard work
brought him genuine happiness.
Truly, as Jehovah’s servants,
all of us want to be busy
in the best ways possible.
Jehovah created us
to enjoy both work and leisure,
as stated at Ecclesiastes 3:13:
“That everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
Keep your life balanced,
and you will enjoy
all of the work you do even more.
Please listen as Brother James Mantz,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
now considers
the final talk of this symposium,
“What Contributes to Joy?
—True Friendships.”
Thanks to modern technology,
people the world over say
that they have more “friends” than ever.
All they have to do
is add a person’s name
to their list of “friends”
on a social network.
Some boast of having hundreds,
even thousands, of such “friends.”
Others don’t have access to the Internet,
so they make friends
the old-fashioned way
—at work, at school,
or in the neighborhood.
Having good friends is very important.
So we need to ask ourselves:
What is true friendship?
Where should I look for true friends?
How can my choice of friends affect my joy?
As you watch the following dramatization,
think about the effect
our brother’s choice of friends
has on his joy.
And, believe me,
that’s not the only dirt I have on Victor.
OK, we’re listening.
So last week,
he’s talking in his office, right?
And he has no idea
that I’m standing right there,
and he’s bragging
to his buddy . . .
I really didn’t want to hear this.
Lunch with them seemed harmless,
but this was anything but upbuilding.
Hey, hey, check out these guys.
It’s the Bible people.
Uh-oh.
Don’t look now!
I think they have someone.
They might try to convert us too!
What is the deal with these people?
I mean, it’s cool
if you want to believe
in fairy tales and everything,
but keep it to yourself,
right?
Exactly!
Absolutely!
Well, . . .
And those carts are everywhere now!
They’re all over the city.
I couldn’t finish my lunch.
I had never noticed
how sarcastic and negative
my coworkers could be.
I had always thought of them as,
well, as friends.
But what kind of friends was I making?
Did you see the brother’s face
at the end of the video?
He didn’t look very happy.
Why not?
The association seemed harmless.
Workmates were just taking
their lunch break together,
but their conversation
went in a negative direction.
They began talking
about finding dirt on a fellow worker.
Then it got personal.
His coworkers started to make fun
of the Witnesses
who were preaching using a cart.
Please open your Bibles
to Proverbs chapter 19.
We’re going to read three verses here,
and these verses reveal
the disappointing reality
of looking to the world
as a source of true friends.
In Proverbs chapter 19,
we’ll start with verse 4,
and then read verses 6 and 7:
“Wealth attracts many friends,
“but the poor man
will be deserted even by his friend.
“Many seek the favor of a noble,
“and everyone is a friend
to the man who gives gifts.
“All the brothers of a poor man hate him;
“how much more he is shunned by his friends!
He pursues them with requests,
but no one responds.”
Friendships in the world
are often based on selfish motives.
As verse 4 says:
‘Wealth attracts friends;
poverty drives them away.’
Such friendships can be shallow,
and they can end abruptly.
One 42-year-old woman
had over a thousand “friends”
on her social network.
Yet, not one of those “friends”
responded to her plea for help
just before she took her own life.
Friendships with the world
are not only disappointing
but they can also damage
our relationship with Jehovah.
With good reason,
the footnote to 1 Corinthians 15:33 warns us:
“Bad associations corrupt good morals.”
Cultivating friendships with people
who do not serve Jehovah
is like trying to mix oil with water.
It just doesn’t work.
Why not?
Because the Scriptures
teach that true friends
can be found only among Jehovah’s people.
Our Christian brotherhood is the only place
where we can find friends
like the one described
at Proverbs 18:24.
Please open to that scripture,
and notice the distinction
between a companion
and a true friend.
Proverbs 18:24 reads:
“There are companions
ready to crush one another,
but there is a friend
who sticks closer than a brother.”
Our Christian brothers and sisters
are not simply companions, or acquaintances,
someone we happen to know;
they are loyal friends.
We can rely on them.
Why?
Is it because we’re all the same age?
Is it because we come from the same national,
economic, or social background?
No.
Our friends in the Christian congregation
stick “closer than a brother”
because they share our faith, our values,
our love for Jehovah, and our hopes.
They work with us
side by side in the ministry.
They support us when we’re discouraged
or when we’re facing a trial.
They rejoice with us when we have good times
together in Jehovah’s service.
And the true friendships that we enjoy now
in the Christian congregation
are going to last forever.
Do you remember the brother
having lunch with his workmates?
In the following dramatization,
watch his face closely
and notice how having
true friends affected his joy.
I was so glad
I had taken a day off from work.
How long had it been since Lisa and I
got to spend a whole day together
in midweek service?
Lisa started a Bible study.
And we got to share our day
with good friends
—people like Sam and Chloe.
They’ve really been there for us
through the ups and downs.
Look at that!
Ben,
is that you?
What are you doing over there?
Did you guys know about this?
I don’t know where we’d be
if Jehovah hadn’t helped us
to keep our priorities straight
—keeping our life simple,
having a clean conscience,
staying focused on work
that has real meaning,
and having real friends.
What more can you ask for?
Isn’t that the way we feel
after we spend time
with our true friends in the congregation?
What is it about our brothers and sisters
that makes those friendships
so special, so precious?
Why do those friendships
bring us so much joy?
Because our friendship
is based on a solid foundation.
Even when we meet
a fellow Witness for the first time,
we already know a lot about each other.
Think about all the things
we share in common:
We worship the only true God, Jehovah;
we speak the same pure language of truth;
we adhere to Jehovah’s high moral standards;
and we have the same hope for the future.
These things are the foundation
of a relationship
built on confidence and trust
—a true friendship.
What a contrast to people
who do not know Jehovah!
Whether their friendships are formed online,
at work, at school, or in the neighborhood,
friendships in the world
are often based on shared interest.
However, true friendships
are based on common values.
Please open to Proverbs 17:17,
and notice the kind
of friendships we will enjoy
when they are based on spiritual values.
Proverbs 17:17:
“A true friend shows love at all times
and is a brother
who is born for times of distress.”
True friends support one another
physically, emotionally, and spiritually.
And our true friendships
make a valuable contribution to our joy.
People everywhere want to be happy,
but many fail to find true joy
because they’re looking in the wrong place.
As we’ve discussed in this symposium,
the world claims that we can be happy
if we pursue wealth,
if we engage in sinful conduct,
if we adopt extreme views of work,
or if we cultivate friendships
anywhere we can find them.
Such assertions originate
with the ruler of the world,
the father of the lie, Satan the Devil.
If we look for happiness in Satan’s world,
we’re going to be disappointed.
In contrast, this first symposium
of our “Always Rejoice”! Convention
has identified four factors
that contribute to our lasting joy.
God’s Word teaches us
that joy comes from first,
living a simple life;
second, having a clean conscience;
third, doing meaningful work;
and fourth, having true friendships.
Our loving Father, Jehovah,
knows what makes us truly happy.
So may we
continue to follow his sound advice.
If we do, we will find
abundant joy that lasts forever.
Thank you, brothers,
for highlighting how God’s Word
guides us to a way of life
that is truly joyful.
We now invite all who are able to do so
to stand and sing song number 89,
entitled “Listen, Obey, and Be Blessed.”
After the song, you may wish
to remain standing for some announcements.
Again, that’s song number 89.